{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf430
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12240\viewh15840\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The field of computational biochemistry harnesses the power of computers and applies it biochemistry. This project focuses on creating computational models of metabolic pathways - series of chemical reactions occurring in living cells. An accurately constructed model will be able to reduce costly and time consuming equivalent lab work. One such application would be modeling drug delivery: researchers would be able to study the impact of under-development drugs and analyze them for harmful side effects, etc, before even synthesizing them in a lab.\
\
In this project we develop a method for estimating the standard Gibbs energy of an organic compound. \'a0Gibbs energies play a major role in the analysis of biotransformations when explicit equilibrium constants of a chemical reaction are not available. \'a0We derive a compound's Gibbs energy using the Gibbs energy of "functional groups" in the compound's formation. \'a0Functional groups are groups of atoms with a fixed structure and energy that are repeated often in nature.\
\
Our approach is based on first constructing a molecular model of both the compound and known functional groups. The model consists of a series of interconnected nodes - a graph. Next, we match the models of the functional groups to the compound using a process called subgraph isomorphism. Conceptually, functional groups are laid onto the compound, not unlike pieces in a jigsaw puzzle, in whatever way most effectively covers the entire molecule.\'a0The algorithm is implemented using C++ and we verified our results against manually computed energies for several compounds.}